Who is sufy?

Sufy directs himself to be decent and puts himself into moral education. When he applies these, Allah Subhana wa Taala grants him exalted situatiıns.His sig among people is a smiling face and a big heart. He would become far from primness and become sincere. 

Thus the Prophet(alaihis salatu wassalaam) used to smile without a laughter and say:

"l also make jokes, but l only say the truth while joking." (daylami, Tabarani)

Ashab-i Kiraam, used to tell the stories of jahiliyya and poems in the presece of Rasoolullah(alaihis salatu wassalaam) and laugh. Prophet(alaihissalatu wassalaam) also used to smile.See the outerside of such sufies' who has reached this moral degree, is given to people and their innerside is protected for Haqq(Jalla Jalaluhu). They surely want to do when they see a goodness, they surely strive to do when they see a good deed. Their time is given to deeds, obeying the orders, reciting al-Qur'an, teaching ilm.

He can't be a sufy who doesn't know the rules of Almighty Allah's and the sunnah of Rasoolullah(alaihissalatu wassalaam)'s. He can not achieve succeding to obey the interrior rules before he succeeds obeying the exterrior rules.

Almighty Allah says:

"And those who strive for Us-We will surely guide them to our ways" (Ankabut, 69)


How could he be trusted and given the truth and secrets, he who wastes the exterrior rules of sunnah? Only the ones who strive for it would reach haqiqah. How could he reach haqiqah he who doesn't walk the path and strive?

No, he is not a sufy who doesn't know the rules of Allah subhana wa Taala's upon himself regarding the outer life. He is not a sufy he who acts against the neccessities of ilm in his situations.

Junaid-i Baghdadi(k.s) said:

"Let ilm be your companion, let the situations regarding ilm exist on you, Because, Almighty Allah says: 
"Those firm in knowledge say, "We believe in it." (al-i lmran-7)"

He is not a sufy whose situations are against sunnah.

For the Prophet(alaihissalatu eassalaam) said:

"He who walks through my path during the corruption time of my ummah, is like the one who holds ember in his hand." (Tirmidhi, Ahmad).

He is not a sufy who doesn't have decency and morals according to the book and sunnah.

Risalah of Sulami's