Opinions of Mujtaheed Scholars Regarding Tasawoof

We've tried to make it clear that it's necessary to be with sadiqoon under the light of verses and hadiths. ln addition to all these, we are going to reach a solution by taking a few proofs from mujtaheed ulama.

Muhaddith Ahmad b. Hajar Haysami, said in Fatawa-i Hadithiyya: "As a result, the best way for the person who is travelling to Allahu Zuljalaal is to follow a mursheed-i qameel who is a great doctor and get under his treatmenr to reach all these."

lmam Fahraddeen-i Radhi(ks) said in Tafseer-i Kabeer: The verse of "The way of those on whom You have bestowed Your grace..."(surah Fatihah; 7) indicates that "A person only can be lead to the way of those who are bestowed Allah's grace upon, by surrendering himself to a qameel mursheed and get into his sripitual circle.". (Sharh'ul Hikam li lbn Ujaibah; 1/7). Because noone is pure from faults and spiritual illnesses. Except prophets. lt's surely necessary to follow a qameel mursheed to get rid of spiritual illnesses.
lt's enough for ahl at-tariqah that the proposal of Moosa alaihissalaam to Khidr alaihissalaam. Allahu Zuljalaal says in the verse: "Musa (Moses) said to him (Khidr) "May I follow you so that you teach me something of that knowledge (guidance and true path) which you have been taught (by Allah)?" (surah al-Qahf; 66).

Moosa alaihissalaam asked Khidr alaihissalaam follow him and learn from him  due to his spiritual ilm even though he is of the ulu'l azm prophets.
Moosa akaihissalaam asked Akkahu Zuljalaal: "Yaa Rabbi, (l'd like to know) is there anyone on earth who is more knowledgable than me?". 
Allahu Zuljalaal said: "Yes, there's my slave, Khidr.".Moosa alaihissalaam wished for talking to him and being with him. Allahu Zuljalaal made them meet. When they came together, Moosa alaihissalaam proposed him to follow him saying this verse.
See this verse, is the greatest proof of the necessity to follow a qameel mursheed for ahl at-tasawoof.
Although Ahmad Bin Hanbal didn't approve tasawoof and tariqah at first, after he met Abu Hamza Baghdadi(ks), he admitted that tasawoof and tariqah is haqq and necessary. He even adviced his son Abdullah saying: "My son, do not leave these people, be with them; the beginning of all the ilms(knowing Allahu Zuljalaal, zuhd, vara and good akhlaq) is by them.".

After lmam Ghazali searched for a mursheed for himself and reached him, he tried to improve hmself by being with his mursheed. And he benefitted him long time.

lzzaddeen b. Abdussalaam stayed by the side of his mursheed Hassan-i Shazali and continued his sohbah for a long time. He even said: "l wasn't able to find qamalah(perfection of character) and the akhlaq of islam before l met Shaikh Hassan-i Shazali. l only found after l was with him.".

Although lmam  Ghazali was called "Hujjat-ul islam" and shaikh lzzaddeen b. Abdussalaam was called "Sultanu'l-ulamaa", and although they both know shariah and ilm of zaheer at highest degree, they still followed qameel musheeds and got into  tariqah.

Even though all these proves are clear as daylight, why don't we need this in this akheer time? Whereas Allahu Zuljalaal says: "O you who believe! Fear Allah and stand with sadiqoon." (surah at-Tawbah; 119). 
ln another verse: "...and follow  the way of those who turn to me..." (surah Luqman; 15). As it's clear in these verses, it's wajeeb for a person to follow a qameel mursheed. lt's even fard-i ayn as lmam Ghazali said. Because it's declared as an order to be with sadiqoon.

Shaikh-ul Akbar lbn  Arabi (ks) said:
"There are as straight people as Hd. Abu Baqr and. Hd. Umar in all times. They are called sadiqoon.Because they are  constant, trıthful, mustaqeem, non-seperable from haqq people in their iman  by their essence, and in their states by their words and actions. Allahu Zuljalaak ordered to be with them.".

Sayyiduna Prophet alaihissalatu wassalaam asked Harith b. Malik (radiAllahu Taala anh):
"O Harith! ln which state did you wake?", and he replied:
"ln the state of a haqq believer!".. Sayyiduna Prophet said:
"Watch what you said. Surely there's a reality for every reality. (Proof it)What's the reality of iman?". When Harith b. Malik (radiAllahu Taala anh) said:
"l turned my nafs from dunia, l see people of jannah as if yhey visit eachother. l see tajalli of Allahu Zuljalaal on the arsh-i a'laa apparently.", Sayyiduna Prophet alaihissalatu wassalaam said:
"You are a true believer, keep going!." three times and "Whomever is willing to enlighten his heart, let them look at Harith.". (Baihaqi, lman; Vll/363, hd.10.592)
Surely this look is a meaningful look. As much as zahiri look is meant, spiritual look which is called rabita is also meant. As for the mercy of Allahu Zuljalaal comes upon a person because of such kind of look, it enlightens the heart. See looking at the face of qameel mursheeds is the same. Let this look either be zahiri or batini, there's no difference. The benefit is the same.