Being With the Sadiqoon

Allahu Zuljalaal says in a verse:
"...the Horn is blown, and We gathered them all together.." (Surah kahf; 99)

The meaning which is understood from this verse is that; as for the incident is going to happen for sure, it's told as if it already happened. We are gonna be so regretful on the day which the horn will be blown, that Allahu Zuljalaal only knows that regret. We are even gonna ask for an hour, a second to do a good deed. But  when the time comes, it would be too little too late. The greatest karamah(oracle) for people on the earth is the right path and istiqamah(integrity). Because of that, it's necessary to get ilm towards  this direction and do good deeds with this ilm. We've all experienced how important ilm is. But a person cannot benefit unless he does good deeds upon his ilm. Because of this, Hd.  Prophet alaihissalatu wassalaam said:
"Yaa Rabbi! l take refuge in You from the non-benefical ilm."(Tirmidhi, Nasai).
lt's hard at the beginning to do deeds upon ilm. lt would be so easy, when Allahu Zuljalaal helps. As for praying, fasting or performing hajj are zahiri deeds, they are easy to perform. And there is spiritual ilm, lt's very hard to know spiritual ilm and do deeds upon it. For example jeakousy, showing off, are the bad habbits which Allahu Zuljalaal doesn't like at all. But these habbits are unseen on the outside. See this is a slap in the face to the people who reject tasawoof.

lt's so acceptable by the sight of Allahu Zuljalaal to fulfill the spiritual duties of  islam. As these are spiritual, they can't be seen by the eye, and can't be fulfilled on the outside, they only can be placed by the rules of tasawoof. Because of that, tasawoof is necessaruy for every single muslim, When the spiritual deeds aren't done, zahiri deeds also wouldn't be fulfilled.

lmam Sha'rani said:
"l take Hd. Prophet alaihissalatu wassalam as a guide for myself when l pray.". lf you pay attention, when a person does khatmah(halaqa dhikr of naqshabandiyya), Allahu Zuljalaal accepts that khatmah by the baraqah of Hd. Prophet alaihissalatu wassalaam and sadat-i kiraam whose names are recited in the silsilah. When we come against a zahiri or spiritual harm, the greatest solution is to beg Allahu Zuljalaal by taking Hd. Prophet alaihissalatu wassalaam and sadat-i kiraam as guide for ourselves.Whoever does a good deed, ten rewards is written for him by the sight of Allahu Zuljalaal. And whoever does a bad deed, only one sin is written for him.
See how much Allahu Zuljalaal valued and blessed the ummah of Hd. Prophet alaihissalatu wassalaam. We have to realize the worth of it and evaluate the opportunity very well.
So much merciful Allahu Zuljalaal is, that He writes only one sin for a bad deed while He writes ten rewards for a good deed.This blessing, this opportunity is given to us for the sake of Hd. Prophet alaihissalatu wassalaam. lt wasn't like this for the other ummahs. We were going to stand brfore Allahu Zuljalaal on the day of  resurrection very poor, if one reward would have been written for a good deed we make. Because lifetimes of other ummahs were very long. They were living a thousand years and spending it all by ibadah. Our lifetimes are 60-70 years avarage. What can a person do in 06-70 years?  Because of this, Allahu Zuljalaal granted this ummah nights in which night  of decree-which is better than a thousand months- for the sake of  Hd. Prophet alaissalatu wassalaam. So that our reward would be more than other ummahs on the day of resurrection.

Allahu Zuljalaal has given an opportunity to us. From now on, one has to know three-four things which are dangerous for him. One of them is shaitan and the demands of it, the second is nefs and the demands of it, the third is hawa(desires) and demands of it, the fourth is dunia and demands of it... An outfit made of fire would be put on our enemy shaitan on the day of resurrection. And a crown made of fire would be put  on its head. lt will be brought while its hands and feer are chained. There would be a pulpit for it in the hell. lt would get on that pulpit. Kuffaar and the foolowers of shaitan would say to it: "O Mal'un! You deviated us from the right path". Shaitan replies them saying: "verily Allah had given you a true promise,and whatever I promised you I made it false to you, and I had no authority over you, but that I called you,then you responded to me, now then put no blame upon me, put the blame upon yourselves.' Neither I couldhelp you nor you could help me. I am strongly disgusted with that you associated me with Allah before. Nodoubt, there is painful torment for the unjust." (lbrahim; 22)

As it's seen here, how wrong it is to follow shaitan which calls us to rebel Allahu Zuljalaal and then leaves us alone is cristal clear. Now, taking all these, we have to stay away from mistakes which would make us deserve jahannam, and we should stick to the good deeds which would make us deserve jannah. That's what's going to save us from hellfire on the day of resurrection. lt's such a big mistake to follow nafs and shaitan in this very short worldly life.

When a person doesn't know of his enemy and be ignorant about it, it's obvious what his enemy would do to him. He has to be alert  against his enemy.

Some of the awliyaa were asked: "How are things between you and shaitan?". They replied: "We have no word on it.". Again they were asked: "Then what are you busy with, isn't it your enemy?". They said: "lt is our enemy. But we are with the Creator of the whole universe. What's from shiatan to us!".

Truly, if a person takes refuge in Allahu Zuljalaal fully, nothing can harm him. Because everything is at the service of Allahu Zuljalaal. One day, shaitan said Khatam-i Asam:
"lf there's no worldly gain, what are you going to eat and wear?", he replied: "My food is death, and my outfit is cerement.".
See, for the friend of Allah's are with Allahu Zuljalaal all the time, they gain strength by Allahu Zuljalaal. Because of this, Allahu Zuljalaaş has to be the interest of a person's heart. 
When a person is out fo this interest, his hand, his feet, especially his whole body would be busy with dunia. And when this happens, the ending of that person would be destruction.

Nafs is another enemy of a person. Even Hd. Yousuf alaihissalaam said: "And I do not hold my soul free from sin' no doubt the soul is wont to command evil but that on whom my Lord has mercy. No doubt, my Lord is Forgiving' Merciful"(Yusuf; 53)
Even the prophet of Allahu Zuljalaal says that. Because nafs is always willing to go after lust, pleasure and sins. And following it -may Allah save- leads to destruction. On the authority of Abu Musa al-Ash'ari, Hd. Prophet alahissalatu wassalaam said:
"The person who leaves ibadah(worshipping) and attaches his heart to dunia fully destroys his akhirah. The one who attaches his heart to akhirah and himself to ibadah, harms his dunia. From now on, choose what's eternal over what's temporary."(Ahmad bin Hanbal, Bazzar, lbn Hibban, Hakeem, Baihaqi).

Allahu  Zuljalaal granted all of us intelligence. Let's think! lsn't he in loss also in dunia, the person who only holds onto the world? Yes, he is. Even the whole world is at his service, if he isn't aware of akhirah, he is in loss both in dunia and akhirah, because the world is temporary... Let us be with good people in the earth to get prepared for akhirah. Being with good companions in dunia is very profitable for a person for his akhirah. As an example of the benefit of being eith good people, we can give the parable of qitmeer, the dog of Ashab-i qahf(people of the cave). Ashab-i Qahf ran away from the brutal king to save their deen and they took refuge in a cave.
A shepherd and its dog joined them. They fell asleep. They asked eachother how long they were asleep when they woke up. One of them said "a day long", the other said "three days", the other said "a week", and one said "we lept in the morning now the night is coming, we slept half a day.". Then Allahu Zuljalaal made the dog speak by His power.
The dog said: "Shall l tell you how long you have slept?" They said: "Tell us!"., the dog said:"You have slept over three hundred years.". They asked: "Howcome you know this?", and lt replied: "l didn't sleep at all!". They asked: "Why not?", and it said "lf l were to fall asleep, you would have left without me, that's why.".
This dog entered jannah because it didn't awliyaa of Allahu Zuljalaal, the good people. lt stayed awake for over three hundred years, waited till they wake up  due to the fear of parting awliyaa of Allah's. See we are supposed to do all the sacrifice we can not to part awliyaa of Allah's.
Allahu zuljalaal created that dog najs(unclean), and us mukarram(reverend). So we are supposed to make more effort than that dog and not to leave the friends of Allah's.
And we can give the son of Nooh alaissalaam's as an example of the harm which would be gotten by being with bad people. Nooh alaihissalaam was of the ulu'l-azm prophets. His son didn't believe even he was the son of a prophet. The reason of this was him having bad friends. His being with bad people caused him die in the situation of disbelief. The parable of being with good peopl is like the person who is in the musk shop. Either he is going to buy musk, or the owner of the shop would give him musk, or he would smell the odor of the musk and this odor would stick onto him.As a result he would surely benefit from this beautiful fragrance.
And the parable of being with bad people is like the man who is in the blacksmith's. Either the fume of the iron would get onto him or the flame coming out of the owen would burn his clothes. See people who stays by the bad people are effected by their morals spiritually.
The bad habbits of those bad people passes onto the people around them. For example a person who is with the thieves would steal one day, even if he never stole before or even thought about it.Hd. Ali radiAllahu taala anhu said:
"Be the best of people by the sight of Allahu Zuljalaal, and be the worst of people against your nafs.".
See when a person is like this, he would become the real friend of Allahu Zuljalaal. Of course, he wouldn't be hopeless from the mercy of Allahu Zuljalaal while he sees himself najs. The more one sees himself najs, the more he would be accepted on the sight of Allahu Zuljalaal. Whoever sees himself high, he would become debased on the sight of Allahu Zuljalaal. We should truly think well. Allahu Zuljalaal granted us intelligence and ordered us to use it.

Everyone knows how a great awliyaa lbrahim bin Atham is. Before he turned Allahu Zuljalaal, one day he got on his horse and he headed to the desert for hunting. He was wandering around confuse and he didn't know what to do. He got away from his guards in this situation. At that mıment, he heard a voice saying:
"O lbrahim! You weren't created for this nor are you ordered doing this." but he ignored. And he heard this voice second time. He ignored and got away from there when he third time heard it. On the fourth time, he heard a voice saying: "O lbrahim! Wake up before someone else wakes you up! You weren't created for this nor are you ordered doing this!". When he heard this voice, he lost self-control. A gazelle appeared before him all of a sudden. As soon as he turned to it, the gazelle started talking and asked him: "Are you created to throw an arrow to a helpless and hunt it? Don't you have any bussiness other than this?".
kbrahim bin Atham said: "What kind of situation is this!" and turned away from the gazelle, but this time he heard the same things from the saddle of his horse. After these, he left his kingdom and turned to Allahu Zuljalaal. After that he became of the great awliyaa. 
Let's think now! Did lbrahim bin Atham win or the people who continued rulin in his time? See they all died. lt's obvious to us who won. See that voices aren' for lbrahim bin Atham only. That advice is also for all of us.
May Allahu Zuljalaal treat us by His fadl and karaam and may He grant all of us good deeds which would make Him consent of us.  
