The Words and Terms Used in Tasawoof

Mureed:
Mureed (the willing, the connected one); is the person who made his heart die towards anything other than Allahu Zuljalaal,  desires Him, has a fervent desire for Him, turned his face back from the adornment, tumidity and magnificence of the world. True mureed has a characteristic of connected to his mursheed, who turns his face towards Haqq and following the dicipline of tariqah to reach Him. Submitting to the one who submitted to Absolute  Will(Allah Subhana wa Taala).

Karamah:
Incidents which come out of a believing and saleeh(righteous) person. And miracles come out of Prophets. Qaramah is not a must for walayah, a person doen't have to show qaramah to be accepted as a wali or mursheed. And the supernatural things which come out of people other than righteous people are called "istidrach(kind of witchcraft which is not done by magic)". The fasiq, sinful people's such kind of situations are either istidrach ormagic which have nothing to do with the contidions  of the friends of Allahu Zuljalaal.
Sadat-i Naqshabandiyya, saw hiding their qaramah as adab towards Allahu Zuljalaal. We see the trueness of qaramah from the parts of Qur'an such as the story of Ashab-i Qahf, Mariam, Balkes, We can give such an example to it from Qur'an:
" He said: “O chiefs! Which of you can bring me her throne before they come to me surrendering themselves in obedience (as Muslims)”) (39. An `Ifrit from the Jinn said: “I will bring it to you before you rise from your place. And verily, I am indeed strong and trustworthy for such work.”) (40. One with whom was knowledge of the Scripture, said: “I will bring it to you within the twinkling of an eye!” Then when he saw it placed before him,..(surah naml; 38-40)

See, this is a great example for both qaramah of awliyaa who are borh aleem and saleeh and tawassool.  

Another example of qaramah is that:
Hd. Umar radiAllahu taala anhu sent a commander named Sariah for a battle. After a while, during he was reciting khutbah of jumuah, all of a sudden :
"Yaa Sariyah! To the mountain, to the mountain!" he cried. The people were looking at eachother Hd. Ali RadiAllahu taala anhu said: "There will be an explanation for it. He wouldn't talk for no reason.". After the prayer, Abdurrahmaan bin Avf radiAllahu taala anhu entered upon Hd. Umar radiAllahu taala anhu and said:
"Talking to yourself, is the worst thing to give people a reason to condemn you. You are giving means to them to gossip with this act of yours. You cried: "Yaa Sariyah! To the mountain!"  during the khutbah. Whhat was that supposed to mean?". Hd. Umar radiAllahu taala anhu said:
"Wallahi l couldn't help myself. l saw our brothers fighting in front of the mountain and the enemy attacking them both from front and behind.".
After a month, when the messenger of Sariyah came, the situation became clear. Upon this, people gossipping about Hd. Umar radiAllahu taala anhu said:
"Do not disturb this man; Allahu Zuljalaal granted him blressings and treats.".(Abu Nuaim)

Muraqabah:
The mureed's controling his heart all the time and keeping it from masiwaa(things which do not benefit akhirah) thinking that Allahu Zuljalaal is aware of all our conditions and him doing good deeds to gain the donsent of Allahu Zuljalaal knowing that He is watching him every moment. Muraqanah is od three parts:
1- The mueaqabah in deeds; paying attentşon to the ikhlaas(sincerity), ikmaal(completion) and adab of the deeds and saving the deeds from the calamities which are going to eliminate their validity and ajr(reward).
2-  lf he went against the orders of Allahu Zuljalaal, then the muraqabah of him is to repent, to regret and avoid from sins, being upon hayaa(shyness) and being busy with tafaqoor.
3-  The mueaqabah in daily work is following the adabs, observance of the Giver by the blessings and being thankful to Him.

Mujahada-Muhasabah:
Mujahada means, the mureed's judge the wishes, desires and goals of  his nafs approprşately; doing the deeds which would make him earn the consent of Haqq subhana wa taala,  leaving things  which wouldn't. And the effort he would make towards this direction. A person has to do muhasabah of his nafs(draw himself into account) every three hours or at least once a day and punish it when he makes a mistake or sins.

State(condition):
The condition of  the mureed that the stability of the good qualities he earned out of his will, after the spiritual education. State  is the divinely granted things which occur in the heart  like joy, sadness, qabdh(stoppage), bast(relaxation), enthusiasm, majesty,uns(intimacy to Allahu Zuljalaal). lt's not the way of mujahada, ibadah and riyazah like maqamaat; but it's conditions like muraqabah, qurb(closeness), muhabbah(love), khawf(fear of Allahu Zuljalaal), raja(hopefulness), mushahadah and yaqeen(certainity).

Shariah, Tariqah, Haqiqah(Ma'rifah):
Shariah is the rules of the deen; tariqah is to make effort  to apply these rules both in zaheer(on the outside) and batin(in the inside); and haqiqah is these rules becoming qualities of that person and the stability of these qualities. To set an example; paying zakah(alms) is a rule of shariah. But if the person starts thinking like "l wish l didn't pay it, my wealth decreased" or "Why do l have to pay this?", such kind of thoughts would harm his ibadah. See, his fighting such kind of thoughtsand every thought and effort that he makes to win over them is tariqah. Acting upon the rules of the deen by easiness, energy and muhabbah without getting into any battles is called haqiqah.The person who has reached haqiqah, does every single deed upon a deep perception and yaqeen; every single thing he does fits the consent of Allahu Zuljalaal.

Sair-u Sulooq:
Sair means spiritually rising as a result of the application ıf the rules of tariqah. Sulooq means to enter the  path, saleeq meand the traveller. Sair-u sulooq is nothing but trying to have good akhlaaq(morals) to gain the ability of reaching(wusool) Allahu Zuljalaal.

Sohbah:
Sohbah  is a maqam, a degree. OurProphet alaihissalatu wassalaam used to do it by sohbah, when He alaihissalatu wassalaam wanted to say something to His(as) ashaab.
Areefs made their mureeds reach Haqq subhana wa taala by only one sohbah. Even though the sohbah of areefs looks like the things told in waaz(islamic talk) and nasihah(islamic advice) on the outside, by true meaning they cannot be compared with the other people's words. Because, just as their sohbah showers faiz and baraqah(blessings), also their nazaar(looks) shower blessings(upon the people).Because they look by the noor of Allahu Zuljalaal. 
Ahl-i tariqah paid much attention to sohbah. The greatest waseelah for citing the love of  Allahu Zuljalaal is attending the sohbah of the people who loves Allahu Zuljalaal. Thus, the majlees(gathering) of sohbah is the waseelah of fanaa(being lost) fi'sh-shaikh(in the peresence of the shaikh), fanaa fi'r-Rasool, fana fi'llaah.
Hd. Sirri Saqati said:
"The law  of sohbah is heavy, the responsibility of it  is much, the adab of it is very important. Mureed has to be  very respectful towards the person who would give him a sohbah. lf he knows this  adab(decency), there would be much benefit  of  sohbah.".
From this angle sohbah is of two parts:
1. lf someone is doing sohbah with a shaikh who is more mature than himself, it means that he is serving the shaikh.
2. The sohbah which is done to a lower person from one's self is a sohbah done out of the feelings like compassion and mercy. Because, sohbah with  a lower person is also a  sohbah done out of friendship and love.
Hd. lbrahim bin Shaiban said:
"Do not talk people who only care about their own interest.".
One day a man said Hd. Sahl bin Abdullah "l  am willing to  attend your sohbah.". When Hd. Sahl asked: "With  who are we going to do sohbah when one of us dies?", he replied: "Allahu Zuljalaal". Then Hd. Sahl said: "You are worthy of my sohbah.".
Hd. Zunnoon-i Misri said: "Attend the sohbah of the people who visit you when you get sick and who care for you  when you are absent.".
Attending  the sohbah of Allahu Zuljalaal is by obeying His orders, the sohbah of society is by advising  them, the  sohbah of nafs is by opposing it, the sohbah of  shaitaan is by taking it  as an enemy, the sohbah of ikhwaan(muslim brothers) is by helping eachother, the sohbah of the mursheed  is by sacrificing everything you have for him.
Sohbah has to be upon mutual sincerity. There's no khair(goodness) in one-sided sohbah.
Hd. Hassan Shazali(ks) said: Do not attend  the sohbah of a person who sees himself better than  you. Because such kind  of people are  condemnatory. Do not attend the sohbah of a person who doesnt see you better than himself. Because their sohbah won't last long.".
Hd. Ali Rabati said: "One day we headed the road with Hd. Abdullah Marwi. lt started  raining heavily. Before  we started travelling he  had asked me if l were willing to be ameer(commander) or mamoor(servant) and l replied "l'd like to be mamoor.". When we were to spend the night at a meadow under heavy rain,  he hold his praymat on top of me the whole night like an umbrella. l said  to him: "Don't treat me this way, please sit, let me protect you from the rain.". He rejected  and  said: "l am the ameer and l am telling you  to sit down.". Finally at the end of  our trip he said: "Do not do sohbah with a person who doesn't prefers you over his nafs.".
Continuing the sohbah of a true and kameel mursheed,  the highest, the most  beautiful and the most secure way. Because of this, it's necessary to continue sohbah in a loving and sticking firmly way. Sohbah increases ilm and  experiences. Sohbah makes the person stronger both in batin and zahir. Tariqah of naqshabandiyya is the way of sohbah. Shaikh Abdurrahman-i Tahi said: "At the beginning sohbah with the seniors is hard. Because of  that it's more benefical for the brothers doing sohbah with eachother.".

Jazbah:
There's a say: "A jazbah from the jazbahs of Rahman, is  equal to the deeds of men and jinn.".
Jazbah is a treat for the slave by Allahu Zuljalaal.
lt's necessary to hold it,as much as he caneither the jazbah happens  during salah or other times. lf it's  words and actions out of his control, noone gets a say. Who could bear the heaviness of the rahmah of Allahu Zuljalaal? 
According to a narration from Hd. Ali radiAllahu taala anhu in the musnad of lmam Ahmad b. Hanbal; Sayyeduna Prophet alaihissalatu wasslam said to Hd. Ali: "You are of me." and to Hd. Jafar: "Your akhlaq  is like my nature  and akhlaq." and to Hd. Zaid: "You are my affranchisment(my freed slave).". Upon these words of His alaihissalatu  wassalaam, they   started wandering on one foot out of vajd(jazbah).
lt's not even possible for these sahabas to do something like that in the presence of Sayyiduna Prophet alaihissalaam. But because it was over their power, they got and  and started doing sama(turning around themselves continuously like mawlawis do).
lf such  thing happened in the presence of Sayyeduna Prophet alaihissalatu wassalaam, it's possible to happen in our era. Because of that noone gets a say in this.  But especially during salah, he has to  hold  himself. As in the state of two letters coming out of the mouth or three movements occurs, it would dismiss the prayer, it's a must to pay much attention. Out of salah, he would relax himself and not to try to prevent the mercy and blessings from coming upon himself just because  some noise would come out. lf  it would happen, let it   be  out of that rahmah and blessings. Let not the one hold  himself and prevent the faiz and baraqah coming from Allahu Zuljalaal...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                