The Origin and Evolution of the llm of Tasawoof

lt was made clear in previous sections that tasawoof  was brought to life by Hd. Prophet alaihis salatu wassalaam personally with the revelation started coming. Especially the period of Makkah, became  a  spiritual maturity gaining period during which mostly  religious and moral principles  took place and sahaba-i kiraam who are the qameel mursheed of the whole ummah were raised upon this usool by Sayyiduna Prophet alaihis salatu wassalaam.
Tasawoof being started a seperate ilm was  after two-three centuries  asr-i saadah(century of happiness, Hd. Prophrt alaihis salatu wassalaam's era), just as the other basic ilms of  islam; fiqh, tafseer, aqaid, and hadith. Mainly, these ilms were present during  the time of Sayyiduna Prophet alaihissalatu wassalaam as  well,  but  they weren't compiled and introduced as proper branches of ilm as well.  Tasawoof and the other islamic ilms's becoming  necessşty, is because of islam getting away from its origins after the time of sahaba-i kiraam and tabieen. The noor of the haqq deen which Rasoolullah alaihis salatu wassalaam declared were hid, deviations of itiqad(belief) and differences between thoughts started to occur. When people were overpowered by ignorance, deeds started being mixed with traditions and sometimes replaced with them.
People started to follow  the path which they think true and went after the dunia much. The rules of islam were mainly put into  the background, verses and hadiths got  started being interpreted  individually due  to political or personal  purposes. Only one society chose the path of isolating themselves in the deserts  doing good deeds and being  busy with dhikr and ibadah. Later on,  when takkas, zawiyas and hanqahs were built; they continued their pure slavery  mujadakah more systematicky. As a result of continuing good deeds and correction of the bekşef;  good conditions started to occur, pure minds and polished hearts  started to  recieve and taste  sip by sip the ilahi marifah(knowing Allahu Zuljalaal). Thus they passed from taqlidi iman to tahkiki iman.
According to the historicak sources as "Risalah" of lmam Qushairi(ks), the first takka is  takka of Abu Hashim, which was placed in  the Ramla city  of Syria. This person is the first one called by the  name "sufi"(150/767).
After him,  the first person who started sufiyya is Hd. Sufyan-i  Savri(ks).  Rabiatu'l-Adawiyya, Shaybatu'r-Rai are of the fountains of faiz in that era.  During the following century, two of the people who served most to spread tasawoof are Zinnoon-i Misri(245/859) and Bayazeed-i Bistami. 
See, previously ilm of  tasawoof was nothing but the words and actions  of awliyaullah in such an ambience; later  on it  started becoming a proper ilm by  people like Junaid-i   Baghdadi(ks)(279/908) writing books. Actually, even though for zahiri ilms, writing  books could be proof  of the  trueness of  the ilm; for a spiritual field as in ilm of tasawoof, the  authentic proof is the very own situations and perception, understandings.
Just as in the field of fiqh,after Qur'an-i kareem  and hadiths, the  notion and opinions of the faqeeh  ulama makes  a solid proof  for us to  act upon and we follow  the zahiri  ijtihaads of  theirs; the  same  way we  should follow the qameel mursheeds who are owners of spiritual view and ijtihaad in batini matters like dhikr,  fiqr(tafaqoor), purifiying the nafs, rabita(connection to the spiritual  souls),  khatmah(halaqa  of dhikr) which are set  by Qur'an and sunnah in our spiritual life.  
Sayyiduna Prophet alaihis salatu wassalaam inspired Hd. Abu Baqr, Hd.  Umar, Hd. Uthman and Hd. Ali(ridwanUllahu  taala anhum) dhikr one by one; but only two of them spreaded around.
The tariq which was released by Hd. Abu Baqr was called "siddiqiyya"  and qıalified with dhikr-i hafi(by heart). The  tariqahs released by Hd.  Ali  were qualified with  jahri(outloud) dhikr.
The tariqahs which are seperated from these  two branches gained different applications because of the reasons we explained earlier. Some of the qameel mursheeds didn't bring a new usool up and continued upon the usool of  previous usthaad.

