lkhlaas and Submission
First of all, it's necessary to know that, a person who follows a qameel shaikh has to make effort to be a real mureed.  Just as the  bi'aat  and submission of the sahaba-i kiraam's to  Sayyiduna Prophet alaihis salatu wassalaam.
Allahu Zuljalaal says:
"Indeed, those who give pledge to you, they are giving pledge to Allah. The Hand of Allah is over their hands." (surah al-Fath; 10)
Because of that, the person who is  willing to be a real mureed  has to submit his mursheed upon a pure itiqaad(belief) and has to believe that the person  who is going to make him reach Allahu Zuljalaal is his mursheed.
Mureed has to take off  his ego and individuality  before the shaikh; submit him fully. Just like lsmaeel alaihissalaam submitted his  father lbrahim alaihissalaam...
Because the  hand of mursheeds is like the hand of  Sayyiduna Prophet alaihissalatu wassalaam. lf mureed submits his mursheed fully, he would submit  Rasoolullah and Allahu Zuljalaal. lf his submission comes short, faiz and baraqah he would  recieve would  come short.
What's understood from the verse is, to submit in the state of tasleem*i kulli(full submission). Whatever mursheed wills, he wills by the order of Allahu Zuljalaal and upon the ilham(inspiration) coming from Allahu Zuljalaal. lt doesn't matter if we see it as khair or shar. Qameel mursheed never asks a thing for his mureed out of his own nafs. Mureed is an amanah(trust) from Allahu Zuljalaal. Mursheed wouldn't loose the amanah;  educate and make the mureed reach his maksood(Allahu Zuljalaal)  
So, it's necessary to  submit fully both in zahir and batin to  gain the tasaroof of the mursheed. Besides, it's a must to  be decent and serve the mursheed in every matter.
Because,the usool  of desire  and muhabbah only occurs this way. lt's also known this way how the scale of sadaqah(loyalty)  and ikhlaas(sicerity) works. There shouldn't be any objection to  his mursheed in the mureed's heart and he shouldn't make bad assumptions.
He should try to understand the situations  which come out of the words and contions of his mursheed; and think good about  them and submit when he cannot understand. He should remember the story of Musa alaihissalaam and Khidr alaihissalaam  and keep silent.
lt's so ugly for a mureed to object his  mursheed . Even only by heart...
There's no medicine for the veil which would come out of this! This situation closes the ways of faiz for the mureed. Because, some of the sadat-i kiraam are very wrathful. They wouldn't want even the slightest indecency. As other sadaat has also possesion on the faiz of the mursheed, mureed has to pay much attention to his actions and his heart.
lt's for sure  that faiz and baraqah of tawajooh and khatmah is cut off due to the people who disobey the adab of tasawoof. Wrathful sadaats wouldn't let the faiz be upon the people who disobey the adabs.
Such are the rules of tasawoof. Because of that, it's necessary  to be with the sad and broken hearted people all the time. ln such situations, Allahu Zuljalaal is with them. His rahmah  and  baraqah is upon them. Thus Maliq bin Dinaar  said:
"lf  there's not sadness in a follower, that heart would be ruined.".
Get away from people who do not follow the rules of islam and the adabs of tasawoof. For, the wrath of Allahu Zuljalaal would be upon them(due to the wicked heart pf theirs).
When the person objects sadaats, faiz and baraqah is cut from him  due to his disobeidence. He is just like a dry tree.
Does he think he would make progress unless he loves his mursheed more than his nafs, wealth brtohers and sisters, mother and father!
Even ashab-i guzeen(radiAllahu anhum) used to say Rasoolullah alaihissalatu wassalaam: "May my mother and father be sacrificed for you, my life is sacrified for you yaa Rasoolullah.".
Even for Hd. Umar(radiAllahu anh) loved his life more,  gave up on his life just because  Sayyeduna Prophet alaihissalatu wassalaam said: "You can not be upon qameel iman.". And then he alaihissalatu wassalaam said: "Now your iman is qameel yaa Umar!". Howcome you don't submit your mursheed fully, as if there is a bargain between you and him?
One of the most important conditions of being a mureed is being truthful both by heart and by tounge. lt's necessary not to stray away from truthfulness  no matter what happens. Whoever does what Abdulqadeer Jilani did, he would become an areef, wali skave just like him(ks).
Because he started this with truthfulness. What's meant by being a mureed of a qameel mursheed is to be for Allahu Zuljalaal entirely. Not to be for the wish of his nafs.
So that he would  be a real mureed...
Sayyeed  Muhammad Rasheed(kuddisah sirrahu) said:
"Whoever is sincere in his being muslim, and has more taat and ibadah, he is more accepted in the sight of Allahu Zuljalaal. Being in this world is a great opportunity for getting on the path of Allahu Zuljalaal and educate the consent of His(Subhana wa taala).
One would miss that opportunity after he passes away. He wouldn't have any power to do good deeds or gain anything anymore. All the gain is gathered within the consent of Allahu Zuljalaal and the good deeds done out of ikhlaas(sincerity).".
Badiuzzamaan Saeed Nursi(kuddisah sirrahu) said:
"The most effective way of gaining and preserving ikhlaas is rabita(thinking about it eyes closed) of death. Just as tool-i amal(attachment to the worldly things as if he would never die) harms ikhlaas, causes riyaa(showing off in his deeds like doing charity to be liked by people but not for the sake of Allahu Zuljalaal only) and forwards to the world; rabita of that  is what makes people hate riyaa and gain ikhlaas.".
lt means one has to get rid of the tricks of his nafs by thinking abotu death and seeing the world is temporary. Yes, ahl-i tariqah and ahl-i haqiqah both made rabita of death fundamental of sayr-i sulook, according to the lessons which they took from the verses of Qur'an-i  Kareem.
According to a qudseehadith related by Abu Huzaifah radiAllahu taala anhu:
"lkhlaas is a secret of My secrets. l placed in the hearts of the beloved slaves of Mine as a trust.".(risalah of Qushayri, Abu'l Qasim al-Qushayri).
Junaid-i Baghdadi(quddisah sirrahu) said:
"lkhlaas is a secret between Allahu Zuljalaal and His slave. The angel doesn't know it so that it could write; the devil doesn't know it so that it could destroy, any of ahl al-hawa(desire) doesn't know it so that they can make his feet slip.".
Abu Sulaiman Darani(quddisah sirrahu) said:
"lf the slave is upon ikhlaas, most of the waswasah and riyaa within would be cut off.".
As a result, whoever is willing to do his deeds upon ikhlaas let him dhikr Allahu Zuljalaal much. The hijab(veil) between Allahu Zuljalaal and him dissapears by this dhikr and he reaches the maqaam of ihsaan. Which is doing deeds as if he sees Allahu Zuljalaal.
Whoever is willing to make propgress, ascend and reach the maqaam of ihsaan in the path of Allahu Zuljalaal,  has to submit his mursheed fully, pull himself away from his ego and obey the orders of his mursheed.
The connection between mureed and the mursheed shouldn't be uncertain(between submitting or not), that submission would be complete. Otherwise it would prevent him getting the spiritual faiz.
Just as if a person who goes to the masjeed to pray does his niyyah like: "l can undo my salah if one enters the masjeed"; his salah would be fasid(not valid) due to he tied his salah to another condition. And he thinks he is praying salah. But he is not praying because of his niyyah.
Just as he shouldn't be uncertain in his salah, he shouldn't be uncertain in his submission as well. First of all his niyyah has to be for Allahu Zuljalaal only, so that his submission would be complete and accepted. 
Also mureed has to connect his mursheed certainly. lf such certain and complete connection occurs, faiz and baraqah starts coming upon him.
ls it right for a person to consider himself as an aleem and smart person even though he isn't following these adabs?                                                  