Explanation of the lmportance

lt's possible to put the importance of tasawoof for men and its being a rukn of islam this way:
Ashab-i Kiraam, tabeen and taba-i tabeen are accepted as the best people of  the world of islam, Sayyeduna Prophet alaihis salatu wassalam made it cristal clear.
"The best people are those of my generation, then those who come after them, then those who come after them. Then lies would be spread, don't trust their words and actions.".(Bukhari, shahadah: 9, Muslim, fadhailu's-sahaba; 210)
Hadrat Abdulazeez Dabbagh said regarding this matter:
"These people(ashab-i kiraam and tabeen) were always loyal to Haqq, always talking about Haqq, waking up doing  dhikr and being with Haqq by their actions. There was very few exceptional.".
There was much goodness in ashab-i kiraam and tabeen as they were pure in their souls. The noor of Haqq was shining on their foreheads and bodies. llm became zahir, seen on them. They had reached the degree of ijtihaad. After theese people, zulmah started choking ummah al-Mohammad. Niyyahs(intentions) got corrupted and mischief mixed into the wishes.See, tasawoof and tariqah became obligatory for peole because they started to live away from the lives and traditions of these salaf.
Shar'i responsibilities are two parts:
1. Zahiri  deeds
2. Batini deeds
Zahiri deeds are the orders and bans which have to be done by the body and organs of  the person. These are responsibilities like praying salah, fasting, paying zakah, not to doing fornication or stealing or drinking....
Batini deeds, which are the orders and bans upon the heart are more important  according to the zahiri deeds. Because  the spirit of the person sets the base  of the zahiri deeds. ls it possible to expect any reward out of a deed which is done in the condition of unbelief? Because of this, spiritual deeds are more important than zahiri deeds. Thus Allahu Zuljalaal says:
"... whoever hopes for meeting his Lord, let him do righteous deeds and ascribe no partners to Him in his deeds."(surah al-Kahf; 110). Allahu Zuljalaal orderes keeping the heart pure by this verse. Sayyeduna Prophet alaihis salatu wassalaam ordered ashab-i kiraam to purify their hearts and directed their hearts towards it, He alaihissalatu wassalaam  said upon this:
"Beware! There is a piece of flesh in the body. lf it becomes good, the whole body becomes good. But if it gets corrupted, the whole body gets corrupted. That's the heart."(Bukhari, imaan;39, Muslim, Sahv; 107, Musaqaat; 20)
Nazargaah(the place which He subhana wa taala looks to judge people) of Allahu Zuljalaal is the heart. Sayyeduna Prophet said regarding this matter:
"Verily, Allah does not look at your appearance or wealth, but rather He looks at yourhearts and actions"(Muslim, birr and sila: 4651)
There's encouragement for the correction of the heart, order for purifying of the heart in this hadith.
So, the duty upon us is to get rid off the bad attributes of our hearts and replace them with good akhlaq and the attribute which Allahu Zuljalaal would like.Because correction of the heart is a must for a person to be sakeh(pious) towards Allahu Zuljalaal.
Allahu Zuljalaal says:
"That Day when there will not benefit [anyone] wealth or children.But only one who comes to Allah with a sound heart." (surah ash-Shu'ara; 88*89)

In another verse:
"Has the time not come for those who have believed that their hearts should become humbly submissive at the remembrance of Allah and what has come down of the truth? And let them not be like those who were given the Scripture before, and a long period passed over them, so their hearts hardened; and many of them are defiantly disobedient." (surah al-Hadeed; 16)

Because of that, a person has to purify his heart from bad attributes and spiritual illnesses. And this purification is only possible by living tasawoof.
The first condition of tasawoof is to clear the heart anything but Allahu Zuljalaal Himself. And the  key to this is, to make the heart reach istighraak in dhikrullah(make the heart covered by the noor of dhikr).
Yes, how could suspicion be searched in this tasawoof path. We invite all our mumeen brothers and sisters to think consciously by their wisdom. lt's only possible by tasawoof to reach the degree of ihsaan. 
Tasawoof is to sabr on the throne of amr and nahy.
Tasawoof is to put your head down onto the ground before the door of the Beloved even if He drives you away.