Tasawuf has made "al-ihsaan" which is one of the three pillars of islam, a goal for itself. So, we'd understand the core and the purpose of taawuf better when we understand what ihsaan is. 
When Hadrat Sayyeed Muhammad Gamari was asked: 
"Is tasavvuf vahy-e samawî?", he replied:
"When vahy-e samawi hadcome to our Prophet alaihissalatu wassalaam, tasawuf was established with it basicly. Because, certainly tasawuf, is the maqam of ihsaan."
Hadith og Jibreel:
We see ihsaan in hadiths and we witness it being explained clearly. On the authority of ‘Umar, radiyallahu taala ‘anhu, who said:
“While we were one day sitting with the Messenger of Allaah, sallallaahu taala ‘alayhi wasallam, there appeared before us a man dressed in extremely white clothes and with very black hair. No traces of journeying were visible on him, and none of us knew him.
He sat down close by the Prophet, sallallaahu taala ‘alayhi wasallam, rested his knee against his thighs, and said, O Muhammad! Inform me about Islam.” Said the Messenger of Allaah, sallallaahu taala ‘alayhi wasallam, “Islam is that you should testify that there is no deity but Allaah and that Muhammad is His Messenger, that you should perform salah (ritual prayer), pay the zakah, fast during Ramadan, and perform Hajj (pilgrimage) to the House (the Ka’bah at Makkah), if you can find a way to it (or find the means for making the journey to it).” Said he (the man), “You have spoken truly.”
We were astonished at his thus questioning him and telling him that he was right, but he went on to say, “Inform me about iman (faith).” He (the Messenger of Allaah) answered, “It is that you believe in Allaah and His angels and His Books and His Messengers and in the Last Day, and in fate (qadar), both in its good and in its evil aspects.” He said, “You have spoken truly.”
Then he (the man) said, “Inform me about Ihsaan.” He (the Messenger of Allaah) answered, ” It is that you should serve Allaah as though you could see Him, for though you cannot see Him yet He sees you.” He said, “Inform me about the Hour.” He (the Messenger of Allaah) said, “About that the one questioned knows no more than the questioner.” So he said, “Well, inform me about the signs thereof (i.e. of its coming).” Said he, “They are that the slave-girl will give birth to her mistress, that you will see the barefooted ones, the naked, the destitute, the herdsmen of the sheep (competing with each other) in raising lofty buildings.” Thereupon the man went off.
I waited a while, and then he (the Messenger of Allaah) said, “O ‘Umar, do you know who that questioner was?” I replied, “Allaah and His Messenger know better.” He said, “That was Jibril. He came to teach you your religion.”” 
[Muslim, Iman:1]
See, Sayyeduna Prophet alaihissalatu wassalaam told us that islaam is upon three pillars  by this hadith which is related by Hadrat Umar radiallaahu taala anh.
1-Islam: Deeds, regarding the seen organs. (salah, fast, hajj, zakaat...)
2-Iman: Deeds regarding belief of Allaahu Taala, His angels, books Prophets alaihimussalaam, day of akhirah, qada and qadar.
3-Ihsaan: Deeds regarding muraqaba and mushahada. This maqam of ihsaan indicates purifying the heart by worshipping Allaahu Zuljalaal with spiritual hushu and peace.  Because of this, part of the deen would be missing if there isn't maqam of ihsaan. 
Such; it's declared clearly in this hadith that, the slave has to be conscious of Allaahu Zuljalaal seeing him  while he is doing all his duties and ibadah, I mean in every single moment of his life.  See, the things which destroys the haal(situation) of the person are: waswasa of shayateen, desires of the nafs and the effects of the outer world.  In that case, we have to get rid of these effects so that we could live live ihsaan. The way of getting rid of these effects is to know their reasons, how they effect the person and the kind of precautions to take against them; in short we have to know the diagnosis and the cure of this unhealthy situation.  
Surely this subject is the most important subject for a muslim. For the fundamental touchstone of islam, is doing every single thing for the sake of Allaahu Taala. And this makes the ilm of tasawuf obligatory. 
It would be benefical to clear a matter here. It could be said: "We can  learn, diagnose and determinate the effects which harm the person living ihsaan from the verses, hadiths and the books of ulama.". Yes, till some point it's true. But the ilm which examines the usool and rules of healing this illnesses is tasawuf. For mursheed-i kameel who is the specialist of tasawuf cures the person by using the zahir ilm in this subject, his experiences and also  the ilm which Allaahu Zuljalaal has given him in a spiritual way.  