Growing up of the Saleeq(Soofy)

Don't you miss getting into the class of spirituals in the condition you have today.You cannot join saints unless your whole presence dissapears. All your feelings has to turn to the Haqq path. Your presence has to leave the material world one by one.

You have to shaken up and save your presence from the realm of the world. What you hold has to be for Haqq, your actions and your silence has to be for Him(Subhana wa Taala). See Him(Jalla Jalaluhu) and hear from Him(jalla Jalaluhu). Say Haqq(Jalla Jalaluhu), stick to Haqq(Jalla Jalaluhu), work for Him(Jalla Jalaluhu), let your mind rationalize Haqq work.

You were absent once upon a time. Later on presence was given to you. See this presence split you with Haqq. Prevented you from getting into the class of spirituals. You'd be saintwhen you leave this presece. Then you'd be soul. You'd get into the class of spirituals.

Be secret... Be one... Secret of the secret, inner of the inner, everything has to be seen as an enemy to you. Every sinngle thing which keeps you away from Haqq(Jalla Jalaluhu)... You have to pick these enemies out of yourself. .

See Ibraheem(alaihissalaam):
-- "Every single thing other than Rabbul Alameen is an enemy to me"
he said. lbraheem(alaihissalaam) was calling the idols as:
--"Enemies..."

Now, on the outside, there are no idols for you, but in secret there are many... Every single thing which keeps you busy from Haqq(Jalla Jalaluhu) is an enemy, an idol to you. Leave these idols. Don't expect a thing from people. You'd see that the world of secrets is opened to you, the world of spirituals is opened to you...

You'd start knowing what noone knows. Things which are impossible to do would come out of you. You'd start seeing things out of tradition, things which don't fit nature. ln reality, these things belong to the other world, but still it would be possible for you to see in here. Because you died and arised from death. You eliminated your presence on the path of Haqq(Jalla Jalaluhu). You reached the secret of the ones who died before death. The world of Qudrah opened the door for you. You belonged there in every situation of yours. From now on your hearing, talking, holding, seeing, sticking, walking, minding,... just like the ones who are living in the world of qudrah... ln short, your peace and silence is only with Haqq(Jalla Jalaluhu), noone else in you. You'd see nothing. Because there's nothing for you other than the presence of Haqq(Jalla Jalaluhu).

But, you have to know the orders of Allah(Jalla Jalaluhu) when you dive into this world, you should definitely not get close to His(Subhana wa Taala) bans. lf you leave a single thing among the things that the Prophet(alaihis salatu wassalaam), know that you are one toy of shaitaan.Run towards the divine orders, don't fall for the personal wishes. Whatever thing doesn't fit the orders of Allah(Subhana wa Taala)'s and the Prophet(alaihissalatu wassalaam)'s, is deviation. Allah (Jalla Jalaluhu) knows best...,

Hadrat Abdulqadeer Jilani