How to Heal Spiritually?

Prophets, ulama and awliyaa showed the methods of these to us as they know the answers of the questions like "How is it possible to earn the consent of Allahu zuljalal? How is it possible to have true iman? How is it possible to have good akhlaq? How is it possible to do al-amal as-saleeh? What are the obstacles in front of these? What is the way to remove these obstacles?" very well. They gave us important prescriptions. They put forth precious criterions for us to measure our situation.

Surely, as a muslim, the will of us all is to be a mature person who has gained the consent of Allahu zul jalaal and has reached good morals. Because of this, we have to learn these advices which we are gonna explain and we have to write them to our mind and heart just as a formula.

Hadrat Ali(ra) told one of these important criterions like this: "We used to advise eachother with three things during the time of our prophet(saw). We used to write these three things down and make them as a book, and we were reminding them eachother all the time.

1- Whoever does a saleh amal(good deed) for the life of akhirah, Allah Subhana wa Taala is enough for his dunia and the orders of his deen. Meaning; Allahu zul jalaal fixes the things for the person who does good deeds for akhirah both in dunia and akhirah. Because of this we could say that if things are not going well for a person, it means that he is not giving importance to his akhirah, not doing good deeds as he has to do.

2- Whoever purifies his heart(soul), Allah subhana wa taala purifies him on the outside.

3- Whoever fixes things between Allahu zul jalaal and himself, Allah subhana wa taala fixes things between him and other slaves. This way, he wouldn't get into any trouble with other people. So, if we become friend of Allahu zul jalaal, people would become friend of ours. If we have issues with people, it means there are peoblems between Allah subhana wa taala and us.

lmam Ghazali(ra) says, these are the signs of Allahu zul jalaal loves a person:

1- He subhana wa taala makes that person do dhikr of Allah subhana wa taala all the time. Protects him from the things which are gonna make him forget Allah subhana wa taala.

2- He subhana wa taala makes calamities fall upon that person. This is for that person not to fall into slackness, to test his loyalty, to educate him and to raise him in degrees.

3- Shows that person his faults and shortcomings so that he wouldn't repeat them and fix himself.

4- Makes that person love the orders, calls and deeds of awliyaa of Allahu zul jalaal. 

We could more or less have an idea about the love and the consent of Allahu zul jalaal upon us. 

Again there are things which are keeping us from the deeds and the duties to Allahu zul jalaal. Preventing our spiritual rise. 

The first of these is; "qasr'ul himmah". lt's because of his qast and himmah is qasr, l mean short. ot being patient enough regarding any situation. lf a person is very impatient, he neither can protect himself from sins nor be patient upon good deeds. For this reason, his qast has to be constant. Not to be qasr'ul himmah. The meaning of himmah is, the person's strength, intention in his body. His sincerity to Allahu zul jalaal. See when this sincerity is weak, it keeps the person from the honorable degrees by the side of Allahu zul jalaal.

The second is "kalilil hillati". lt means that a person's incapability of solving a problem he meets. However whatever problem comes to him, there's always a solution for it. For this reason he has to look for a solution thinking "how can l get rid of this?". For example when a person sins, he has to think about the way of getting away from sins. The way of it is to repent. Knowing this, looking for a solution for whatever comes to him is a must.

The third is the weakness of thought, lack of tafaqqoor.  lf the thought of a person becomes weak, he would be deprived from the honorable degrees by the side of Allahu zul jalaal. Our prophet (saw) said regarding this subject: "An hour of tafaqqoor is much better than a year of ibadah.".

lmam Umar(ra) said: There  are three thiğngs, if a person doesn't have these three attributes, -may Allah subhana wa taala save- even faith doesn't benefit that person. These are:

1- A person has to be haleem(softheaded). When he meets someone  ignorant, he has to dispel his ignorance with this hilm.

2- A person has to have taqwah(piety) towards Allahu zul jalaal, so that he could protect himself from sins.

3- A person has to be upon good morals in his relationships with people and in making a living.

Let's try to heal ourselves spiritually by applying the advices of Allahu zul jalaal, our prophet(saw) and sadat-i kiraam, as their advices are medicine, just the way a sick person taking meds to heal his body.

Ahmad Yalchin Kojabash
Journal Gulistan