The Reason Why We Should Follow A Qameel Mursheed

Allahu Zul Jalaal said in the verse:

O you who have believed, fear Allah and be with those who are sadiqoon (true). (surah at-taubah verse 119).
Being with sadiqoon is to have our nafs purified and gain good attributes. lt's possibble to succeed in taqwah thi way. And to be able to do this, it's a must to follow/obey a qameel mursheed and attending their sohbah(talk, gathering). Because being with sadiqoon is possible by sohbah phisically and by rabitah(thought of the shaikh) spiritually.
The benefit and effect of being with sadiqoon and following a qameel mursheed occurs by both following zaheer in his deeds and effecting himself spiritually.

Our Prophet (alaihissalatu wassalam) educated ashab-i kiraam in two ways which are adab-i dars and adab-i nafs. Allahu zul jalaal granted His habeeb with these two adabs. Adab-i dars is to do all the zaheer(open) deeds the way Allahu zul jalaal wants. Adab-i nafs is to purify the nafs(self) and soul from bad attributes and gain good attributes.

Walee slaves of Allahu zul jalaal also gained these two adabs and make the people who follow them gain these two adabs. Because qameel mursheeds came today upon a silsilah. Thus it's way too benefical and necessary to follow and try to benefit from qameel mursheeds who are true heirs of our prophet alaihis salatu wassalam.

Shaikh lsmaeel Haqqi Bursawi said regarding the tafseer of this verse:

"O you who have believed, fear Allah and be with those who are sadiqoon." (taubah 119) means qameel mursheeds. lf a person serves with them seriously, and is accepted in their sight by his love, he would be able to leave masiwaa(badness) because of their faiz and baraqah. The person who walks the path of Allahu zul jalaal succeds in integrity and reaches divine peace."

The hikmah of the order to be with sadiqoon is:
lf a person doesn'tperform his situation, circs, acts by another one's will, he certainly cannot leave his hawaa(desires), and because of not being able to leave his desires, he would spend the rest of his life for nothingi he cannot reach his true goal. However, if he surrenders himself to another person's orders, his nafs(self) would be dead and his heart would exist. Just as the way an ilm-learnin young person would get rid of ignorance, one could succeed in deeds and ikhlas under the authority of qameel mursheed.
Our prophet  (alaihissalatu wassalam) raised ashab-i kiraam by giving faiz(excitement of being with Allah subhana wa taala) by the side of sohbah. See because of qameel mursheeds being true heirs, they raise mureeds by their sohbah, tawajjooh and and nazaar(looks).

On the authority of Abu'd-Darda(ra) our prophet (alaihissalatu wassalam) said:
"Surely ulamaa(scholars) are the heirs of prophets. They didn't inherit dinaar and dirham(money). But they inherited ilm."(Abu Dawood: 3641, Tirmidhi: 2681).
As this hadith shows clearly, thinking it's only zaheer ilm, but not batin. is the work of great ignorance. Just as the way our prophet (alaihissalatu wassalam) saved ashab-i kiraam from the swamp of kufr, zulmah(darkness) and ignorance; qameel mursheeds also equip the people who are with them by their attributes.
As much as defaming ahl at-tasawoof by accepting zaheeri ilm but rejecting batini ilm doesn't benefit these people, it can't harm ahl at-tasawoof either. Our prophet (alaihis salatu wassalaam) said:
"There will be a jamaah(society) from my ummah, who are upon haqq. lt wouldn't harm them that a person tries to turn them back from the path of Haqq. lt would continue this way till the amr of Allahu zul jalaal comes". (Bukhari, l'tisam: 10, Tawheed: 29, Muslim, lmarat: 171).There's a very clear message of this hadith for us. The heirs of our prophet (alaihis salatu wassalaam), would guide al ummah upon Haqq till qiyamah. Those heirs, who are true qameel mursheeds. Because they are able to guide both in zaheer and batin.
For this reason as much as it's a great crown being with them, it's a painful poison leaving them. So that people who are withqameel mursheeds cannot become shaki(ahl al-jahannam). Thus hadrat prophet (alaihis salatu wassalaam) said:
"Aware of the farasah of the mu'min. Because they see by the noor of Allaah Subhana wa taala.". (Tirmidhi, Tafseer: 15, hd. 3052). Qameel mursheeds are like hunters. Just as yhe way hunters hunt wild animals by subtle skills and various traps, take the wildness away from them by educating them and teach them skills; qameel mursheeds also chasten the rebellion of the wild nafses by sohbah, tawajjooh, himmah and nazaar and make the nafses gain the attribute of obeidance. They make them have a grasp of divine secrets by teaching them the mannors of being a slave. Spiritual ilm cannot be learnt by zaheer ilm, education or recitation of qur'an. And because the nafs has bad attributes, illnesses like pride, arrogance, vanity can cause the destruction of people. According to the story, a person worshipped Allahu zul jalaal alone in an island for 60 years and he was granted much beneficence. At the end Allahu zul jalaal sent an angeş to him asking:
"Shall l judge you by your deeds or by My mercy?". As for that man worshipped for long years and his pride took over, he said: "Judge by my deeds". Allahu zul jalaal took his account. All the deeds he made couldn't even efford an eye given to him. And he realised his fault when he was taken to jahannam and asked for forgiveness. Allahu zul jalaal showed mercy and sent him to jannah.
Thus, as much deeds as one does, if he follows a qameel mursheed, he sees his deeds few and works harder. lf he doesn't follow a qameel mursheed, he would be decieved by his nafs and shaitan easily. He would see his few deeds as if they are lots and he would be detructed may Allah subhana wa taala save.
Every single person has bad illnesses in his soul like pride, arrogance, vanity, jealousy, gossip... And it's a must to get under the education of a qameel mursheed to get rid of theese. Some people don't evern realise the illnesses they have and they don't make any effort to get rid of them.These are among jahl-i muraqqab(ignorant people who think themselves as scholars). Shariah is external, but theese illnesses are internal.
Allahu zul jalaal said regarding those people: 
Say, [O Muhammad], "Shall we [believers] inform you of the greatest losers as to [their] deeds?
[They are] those whose effort is lost in worldly life, while they think that they are doing well in work."(surah al kahf: 103-104)


A person has to look into a beautiful mirror to see his own face. Just as the way he couldn't see his face without a mirror, he has to go see a qameel mursheed, tell him about his issues and finnd the cure for his faults and illnesses. Because our prophet alaihis salatu wassalaam said:
"Mumeen is the mirror of mumeen" (Bukhari, adab)
Again, Allahu zul jalaal said regarding this subject:
"There has certainly been for you in the Messenger of Allah an excellent pattern for anyone whose hope is in Allah and the Last Day and [who] remembers Allah often."(ahzaab;21)
Allahu zul jalaal teaches ashaab-i kiraam to follow our prophet alaihis salaatu wassalaam and obey him. Just as the way they followed our prophet alaihis salaatu wassalaam in his time, it's a must to follow his heirs and turn to Allahu zul jalaal this way today. The signs and the orders of Allahu zul jalaal indicates this.
Because of this, it's a must to be with the true heirs, continue their sohbah, and getting under their irshaad. This way, both our imaan would be strenghten and the faults of our nafses and the illnesses of our hearts would start dissappearing and we would start gaining good attributes.