Elements of this path towards Allah Subhana wa taala are purifying the heart from anything other than Allah Subhana wa Taala. There are four elements of this path.

1. First element is vird. lt's dhikr by mentioning the name(Allah) at least 5000 times a day just by heart.

Allahu zuljalaal said in a verse:
And no doubt, the remembrance of Allah is the greatest (Al-Anqabut;45)

 Allahu zuljalaal said in another verse:
Who remember Allah while standing or sitting or [lying] on their sides and give thought to the creation of the heavens and the earth, [saying], "Our Lord, You did not create this aimlessly; exalted are You [above such a thing]; then protect us from the punishment of the Fire.(Al'i lmraan; 191)
Allahu zuljalaal says in another verse:
Verily, in the remembrance of Allah do hearts find rest. (ar-Raad; 28)

Hd. Prophet (alaihissalatu wassalaam) said:
"The deed which protects one from the wrath of Allahu Taala most, is that he does the dhikr of Allahu Taala". (tabarani)

Dhikr is the polish of the heart. Thus lmam Sharani related from Ali al-Marsafi :
There's no better thing than dhikr for purifying the heart. Because purifying the heart of a person who does dhikr is like purifying copper by polish and tin. Purifying the heart by other deeds is like cleaning a plate with soap. How can they be compared? Getting rid of rust would take so long by soap, but with tin, it would be cleaned in no time.

Muadh lbn Jabal radiAllahu Taala anhu said:
"Ahl-a jannah would only be sad about the time they spent without dhikr in the world.". And he also said: "People die thursty, but people of dhikr wouldn't be thursty while dying."

Hassan-i Basri said:
Tere are two types of dhikr. The first one is remembering Allahu Taala while sitting. The second one is protecting himself from sins byrememberingAllahu Taala. The most superior dhikr is the second one."

Abu Dardaa radiAllahu Taala anhu said related from Hd. Prophet (alaihissalatu wassalaam):
"Shall l tell you the best, the most pure in the sight of Allahu Taala, the most rank raising of your deeds, and the deedwhich is better for you than giving away silver and gold, fighting against enemy and beheading them or being beheaded by them?". Ashab-i Kiraam said:
"Yes, tell us.". Hd. Prophet(alaihissalatu wassalaam) said:
"Doing dhikr of Allah".(ıbni Majah)

Moosa alaihissalaam asked Allahu Zuljalaal:
"Yaa Rabbi! How am l supposed to distinguish people You love from people You don't love?". Allahu Zuljalaal said:
"Yaa Moosa! l grant two signs people l love.". Moosa alaihissalaam said:
"Yaa Rabbi! What are those signs?".  Allahu Zuljalaal said:
"Yaa Moosa! The first sign is that l inspire him to do My dhikr, this way l remember him in the heavens and on the earth. The second sign is that l keep him away from unlawful things and my wrath, so that he wouldn't get caught by my torment and calamities. As against this, l also give two signs to the people l hate.". Moosa alaihissalaam said:
"Yaa Rabbi! What are those signs?". Allahu Zuljalaal said:
"Yaa Moosa! The first sign is that l make the person l hate forget my dhikr. The second sign is that l leave him alone with the desires of his nafs, so that he would fall into unlawful things and My wrath would e upon him and this way he would get caught by My torment and calamities.".

Hd. Prophet alaihissalatu wassalaam said:
"There is a cleaner for every single dirt. The thing which purifies the hearts is the rememberance of Allahu Taala. Dhikr is the most effective deed which saves from the torment of Allahu Taala.".(Baihaqi)

Allahu Zuljalaal said in a qudsi hadith:
"I am near to the thought of My servant as he thinks about Me, and I am with him as he remembers Me. And if he remembers Me in his heart, I also remember him by Myself, and if he remembers Me in assembly I remember him in assembly, better than his (remembrance), and if he draws near Me by the span of a palm, I draw near him by the cubit, and if he draws near Me by the cubit I draw near him by the space (covered by) two hands. And if he walks towards Me, I rush towards him.".  (Bukhari, Muslim, Tirmidhi)

Hd. Prophet alaihisalatu wassalaam said:
"The difference between the one who remembers Allahu Taala and the one who doesn't remember is like the living and the dead.".(Bukhari, Muslim)

Hd. Prophet alaihissalatu wassalaam said:
"l order you to remember Allahu Taala much. Just like the person who is followed by the enemy would take refuge in a castle, the slave would be saved from shaitaan by the rememberance of Allah Taala.".(Tirmidhi, Hakeem)

As the verses and hadiths show, the rememberance of Allahu Zuljalaal is the best thing for a person. One can always be busy with dhikrullah, which doesn't harm our worldy gains ever. ln his busy time, while he is busy with trade or his bussiness, he could do dhikrullah. He could repent and send blessings upon Prophet alaihissalatu wassalaam on his way by tounge.

Wouldn't dhikrullah be great? Us remembering Him is obvious. Him remembering us is, that He helps us in our hard days, grants us strength to be saved from sins and grants us all the benefical things for us. Also making us successfully reply the questions of Munqar and Naqeer in the grave. Helping us to have our books given us from the right side on the day of resurrection, passing the bridge of siraat which is sharper than a sword. Helping us to be saved from the fire beneath that bridge. Helping us with all the questions which we would be asked in akhirah.

As such things would be gained by dhikrullah, not remembering Him is a sign for us that our ending would be bad. There is no greater benefit from this on the earth.When we do His dhikr on the earth, He would help us against the scary things like death, resurrection, siraat.

As a sum, Him remembering us means, Him helping us when we get stuck in hardship like time of predeath, death, resurrection, siraat. We are supposed to do dhikrullah to reach the help of Allahu Zuljalaal. Allahu Zuljalaal is the owner of power and might.Because of this, His rememberance is also great. So we have to stand on this with fastidiousness, continue this and not to deprive ourselves from this.

ln brief, Allahu Zuljalaal would help us when He looks at our hearts and finds it busy with dhikrullah.

A believing person has to make effort to achieve the assignments which he has been given according to his means. Because of this lbraheen-m Dusuki said:
"When someone leaves his daily dhikr, surely the rahmah of Allahu Zuljalaal, the shafaah of Prophet alaihissalatu wassalaam, the help of awliyaa upon him would be cut off on that day.".

May Allahu Zuljalaal not deprive us from dhikrullah which is a great blessing, for the sake of His own self's rights and for the sake of the Prophet alaihissalatu wassalaam. May He grant us strength to remember Him and make us gain His blessings and love by dhikr insha Allahu Taala...

2. The second element of the path towards Allahu Taala is the nexus of a scholar who acts upon his ilm.
(For further information see the book named Muallifeen Adab) 

3. The third element is to spend the time from imsaq(start of the fajr salaah) to the sunrise by dhikr. 

Just as the way Allahu Zuljalaal blessed some places, He also blessed some time periods. Rememberance after fajr salah is better than the other times. One would enter the day by dhikr, a purified nafs, and he would get through the day by peace. Because this deed would make him be in peace by Allahu Zuljalaal. And this would pull him towards worshipping. This way he would both spend the day worshipping and be saved  from sins.

4. The fourth element is tahajjood prayer.
Allahu Zuljalaal says in a verse:
And from [part of] the night, pray with it as additional [worship] for you; it is expected that your Lord will resurrect you to a praised station (lsra; 79)

Hd.Prophet alaihissalatu wassalam ordered Abu Hurairah radiAllahu Taala anhu:
"O Aba Hurairah! lf you are willing to be shown mercy by Allahu Taala while you are alive, in your grave and on the they of resurrection, wake up during night and pray salah. lf you are willing your home be bright like the moon and stars light up; wake up  during night and pray salah.".

Here what's meant by stars is that: Just as the way people see the stars when they look at tht sky, the angels see the houses of the people who wake up and pray during night as bright as stars when they look at the earth.

Hd. Prophet alaihissalatu wassalaam said:
"l advice you to be busy worshipping during night. The night prayer is the tradition of the good and pious people before you, it's way to get intimate with your Rabb, be forgiven, be saved from sins, and at the same time it's a thing which heals your body from illnesses.".(Tirmidhi, lbn Ebi'd-Dunya, lbn Huzaimah)

Allahu Zuljalaal said Dawood alaihissalaam:
"O Dawood! The person who sleeps from the darkness of the evening till the morning is a lier when he claims he loves Me.".

Hd.Prophet alaihissalatu wassalaam said:
"When a person sleeps, shaitan ties three knots to his nape saying "long sleep to you" during every single one of them. lf he wakes up and remembers Allahu Taala, then one knot is untied, if he makes wudu then the second is untied, and if he prays salah then the third one is untied. This way he reaches the morning with a peaceful and pure nafs. When he doesn't do these, he reaches the morning with a lazy and impure nafs.(Bukhari, Muslim, Abu Dawood)

According to the narration, they mentioned a person who skeeps till the morning without waking up to Hd. Prophet alaihissalatu wassalaam. Hd. Prophet alaihissalatu wassalaam said: "shaitan urinated in his ear.".(Bukhari, Muslim, Nasai)

The person has to be very careful here. Whoever sleeps till the morning and shaitan urinates into his ear, he would become unable to do the deeds of that day. Such that he would fall into mistakes, he couldn't get the taste of the deeds
and he treats people immorally. Against this, the person who wakes up before imsaq, starts the day with a pure nafs. He treats people with good morals, gets the taste of deeds, and be saved from sins.There is a great warning for all the believing people in this hadith. lt's necessary to take a lessın from this warning. lf a believer has the possibility to take a nap during the day when he is not busy, it's precious for a believer to wake up before imsaq, pray tahajjood. At the same time it's a great means for earning way too much prices in akhirah.

Shakik-i Balhi said: "l wished my grave to be enlightened. l found it's way in the night prayer.".

Some of the awliyaaullaah said. lf a person who is walking the path of Allah
spends his all nights sleeping, he couldn't get any blessings."

After all these, one has to sacrifice his night sleep and beg Allahu Zuljalaal in the state of fear and hope. When he doesn't do that he would start the day with a lazy and impure nafs.Just as the way we make preperation for a trip, we have to stick to the ajr which would be benefical for us for our resurrection day trip.