Proofs of Tasawoof From Qur'an and Sunnah

Such a question could came to mind that is there a verse regarding the spiritual deeds which tasawoof emphasizes insistently. Yes, there are verses which indicate spiritual intentions and deeds clearly. For example Allahu Zuljalaal says:  "Say: My Lord forbiddeth only indecencies, such of them as are apparent and such as are within,..."(Araf;33)

And in another verse: "...Come not near to Al-Fawahish (immoral sins) whether committed openly or secretly;..."(An'am; 151). Just as the way Allahu Zuljalaal forbids the bad deeds we do with our zahir(seen) organs, also forbids batini(unseen) bad deeds like holding a grudge, showing off, jealousy. So we should make effort to get rid of these unseen bad attributes as well. The only way of it is getting into the path of great tasawoof. 

lbn Abidin said: "lt's fard-i ayn(a duty upon every single peron) to get ilm of ikhlaas, to know the illnesses like ujoob(smugness), riyaa(showing off), hasad(jealousy). lt's also fard-i ayn knowing ilnesses like arrogance, wrath, stinginess, betrayal which every single one of them is a calamity for the peron's nafs and saving yourself from these.". (lbn Abidin; l/42)

Sayyiduna Prophet alaihissalatu wassalaam said: "One who has arrogance even an atom's wieght cannot enter jannah.".(Muslim; lman; 147). After all these, the most important task for us is to purify ourselves from these ugly illnesses, turn to Allahu Zuljalaal. And this is only possible by tasawoof.

As a solution, the origin of tasawoof is to walk the path of Qur'an and sunnah. Not to leave the path which ustaads(masters) of tasawoof showed in any coast. To leave the bid'aah, empty desires and lusts of the nafs. Not to fall into deficiency against the people and the other creations which are meant to be respected. Especially, to pay attention to do the daily dhikr continuously. (see Abu Abdurrahmaan Sulami, Tabaqatu's-sufiyyah; 448, narrated by Abu Qasim Nasrabaadi).

See this is the origin and core of tasawoof. Whomever deviates from this path, sureky he falls down from the state of the soldiers of Haqq.  
