Benefits Of Doing Dhikr

What is the virtue and benefit of doing dhikr?

lt would be benefical to read th article below, regarding the benefit and virtue of doing dhikr.

Dhikr drives shaitan away. Allahu zuljalaal would be consent of the slave of His who does dhikr. Dhikr gives peace, bliss and relief to the heart. Dhikr clears grief, worry and sorrow away from the heart. Puts noor into the heart and onto the face. Strenghtens the heart and the body. Cites the sustenance. He would be easiy given sustenance by Janab-i Haqq creating the means for it. Dhikr gives the owner of it love, sweetness, beauty and brightness. Grants the love of Allahu Taala, to the dhaakir(person of dhikr). Such love, that it's felicity and salvation. There is a reason for every single thing. The reason for muhabbat-i llaahiyya, is continuing dhikr both by tounge and by heart. Dhikr brings muraqaba, tafaqoor, thinking, so that it would take the person in the gate of ihsaan. lhsaan is the highest place. A great gate of marifah allaahiyya would be opened in his heart due to dhikrullaah. And the more he does dhikr, the more he increases in marifatullaah. Dhikr increases the heart in majesty, greatness, jalaal and exalting of Allahu Zuljalaal. Dhikr leads repentance to Allahu Taala. This is rujoo(recourse) to Allahu Zuljalaal. lt effects the heart, it would be the sanctuary, refuge and qiblah of the heart. Dhaakir gets qurbiyyah(closeness) to Allahu Zuljalaal in according to the dhikr he does. Dhikr causes Allahu Taala remember him(the person of dhikr). Even if there was no other benefit of dhikr, the blessing and honor of Allahu Zuljalaal remembering that slave is enough for him. Dhikr increases the heart in life(resurrects the heart). Dhikr is way too necessary for the heart and the heart is in need of dhikr. Just as the way the fish being in need of water. Dhikrullaah polishes the heart and clears it from the dust. The dust of the heart is unawareness and following the desires of it. And its polish is tawbah, istighfaar and dhikrullaah. Dhikrullaah erases the faults and the sins. Because it's said in the verse: "...Indeed, good deeds do away with misdeeds...(Hud; 114)". Dhikr clears the fear and khashyat between Allahu Taala and the slave, and brings closeness to Allahu  Zuljalaal. lf the slave remembers Allahu Taala in times of relief and then a calamity falls upon him and he starts praying Allahu Taala, the angels would help him. Dhikr is the only ibadah which would  save a person from the wrath of Allahu Taala. Dhikr causes tranquility, dignity and divine mercy surround himself, angels visiting and do tawaaf around him. Dhikr saves the tounge from giybah(gossip), namima(telling one person's words to another), lie, evil and malayani(useless) words. Majaalees of dhikr are majaalees of angels. Majaalees of malayani with unawareness are the majaalees of shaitan. Whicever the person chooses, he would be resurrected with them in akhirah. Dhaakir would be said(happy), and people who sit with them would also be said. lf he sits in the majlees of unawareness and sin, he would be shaki(miserable). Dhaakiroon would be safe from hasrah(longing) and nadamah(regret) on yawm al-qiyamah(resurrection day). lf dhaakir cries(especially alone) during dhikr, he would be under the shade of the arsh on yawm al-qiyamah. Betteer things would be given to the person of dhikr without asking, than the things given the people who ask. Dhikr is the easiest and the best of ibadah. The trees of jannah are made of dhikr and tasbihah. lt's not possible to gain the atiyya(treat) which is given to the slave who does dhikr, out of any other deeds. Dhikrullaah, surely makes the person proceed towards Allaahu Taala. Either on the road, or in bed, all the time, everywhere, Allaahu Taala and His consent has to be in the tounge and  heart. lt's certain that, dhikrullaah is the head of the usool, kaida(rules) and adabs in every tariqah and on the sight of ahl at-tasawoof. lt's sign of walayah(being friend of Allahu Taala). To whomever the gate of dhikrullaah is opened, all the doors of presence of Allahu Taala are opened to  him. So, you! Get purified and enter the presence of your Rabb. You would find anything you wish there. The one who finds his Rabb finds everything, the one who forgets his Rabb is deprived of everything. Dhikrullaah is certainly like a tree, such that irfan and haal(conditions) are grow out of it. The one who remembers is close to the One whom he remembers. Dhaakir is with Allaahu Zuljalaal as long as he does dhikr. The most worthy of ikraam among the muttaqi(saving himself from sins) slaves of Allahu Zuljalaal are the ones whose tounges are busy with the dhikr of Allahu Zuljalaal. Surely, qaswah(depression), zulmah(darkness) and merciless kind of illnesses would occur in the heart due to bashariyyah(humanity). The cure of them is only possibble by dhikrullaah. There's is shifa(healing) for the hearts in dhikrullaah. lt's the only medicine of the heart. Gaflah(unawareness) is the illness of the heart. The cure and shifa of the sick hearts is dhikrullaah, Because, heart is the place of noor; it requires noor all the time. Surely dhikrullah is the head and basis of the friendship of Allaahu Zuljalaal, and gaflah is the reason and the head of bughd(anger) of Haqq Taala. Surely, Allaahu Zuljalaal would put His slave who remembers Him in jannah in the condition of happiness and joy. Dhikrullaah is certainly a barrier between the slave and jahannam. Even if the slave is put to the road to jahannam due to some of his sins, the dhikr he had done would immediately close those roads and prevent that slave entering jahannam. All the ibadah whixh shariah orders are all ordered to substitution and execution of dhikrullaah. Praying salah is also for the substitution of dhikrullaah. lt reached us by some riwayahs that Janab-i Haqq said: "Awliyaas, ahibbaas(beloved ones), friends of Mine are blessed with dhikr of Mine. l mean they take their spiritual sustenance from My dhikr and they come close to Me. Because, l am the most beautiful murabbi(educator), ma'bood(deity) and maqsood(the wished one) of yours.".