The Role Of Dhikr ln Tarbiyya

Function Of Dhikr

A should know what it subserves well, when he does something. The wheels are spinning, but for what reason, and what they subserve? lt's necessary to know these well. Othervise, noone can proceed eyes closed. Even if one keeps going this way for a while, it wouldn't be much efficient nor could he make it to the end of it. Because of this, it's necessary to be conscious in dhikr as well. OK, dhikr is done for the sake of Allaah Jalla Jalaluhu. No other benefits except this would be expected. This is one side of the deed. But, just as the way a tree without any fruit is not palatable, l mean, just as the way people plant trees in their gardens to get fruit out of them, nafs has some expectations from doing dhikr as well. Dhikr makes the tree of nafs grow, green and bear fruit. Makes the person who is harmful both for himself and for society, mature. Raises nafs-i ammara to the level of nafs-i qamila. Othervise, Almighty Allaah is not in need of a single deed. Deeds are useful for people both for their worldly and ukhrawi(after death) lives. ln short, dhikr is done for the sake of Allaah Jalla Jalaluhu, but the Almighty Allaah rewards people who does this ibadah with the good character of nafs.

How Does Dhikr Effect Nafs?
As we know there are states of nafs: Ammara, lawama, mulhima, mutmainna, radhiyya, mardhiyya, qamila.
Back in the day, l was holding "Marifatnama" of Hadrat lbrahim Hakkı (ks) in my hand. A friend of mine took it. Took a look at the contents part. And said: "ls it necessary to pass over these steps to become wali?". l said: "yes". He said: "Would you please tell me briefly then?". l said more or less these: "Nafsi ammara is the kind which is able to do any evil. People with no islamic standards are usually in this group. The main characteristic of nafs-i kawama is that it repent, and obey the orders and bans of Allaahu Taala. Mulhima ha also zuhd and taqwa kind of adornments beside repentance. lt's now reached the maturity to get ilham(inspiration) from Allaah Jalla Jalaluhu. The most evident characteristik of nafs-i mutmainna is tawaqool(putting all his trut in Allaahu Taala). Radhiyya nafs is consent with Allaahu Taala. Mardhiyya is the state which Allaah Jalla Jalaluhu is consent with the person. Nafs-i qamila has the akhlaaq(morals, attributes) of Allaahu Taala, every kind of superior akhlaaq and virtues became its characteristic. My friend said: "ls that all? Then l would pass over them all in one day." underestimatingly. Surely a person can even go to the deep universe and come back in a couple of minutes in his dream. But in reality, this wouldn't happen that easy. Because, nafs wouldn't change easiy, The maqam of nafs wouldn't be passed over by thoughts. Nafs could be changed by living. And this requires a way too long time and effort. See, when people commit crimes, they are not adviced, but they are educated the way they would understand. For this, it's tried to correct them by depriving them of some blessings, putting them in jail for sometime.

lt's not easy to bring nafs to heel. Tariqah of Khalwatiyya didn't use to value dhikr much. As it's seen by the name khalwatiyya, they used to give weight to khalwat(lonliness, staying away from people). Because of this, they used to put mureeds in khalwah frequently. Fourty days long khalwah is called chila(suffering) or arbain. These khalwats were spent upon fasting, dhikr and öuraqaba. lt took years like this. After all those years, some would look back and see that they made so little progress. l mean their nafs didn't change much.

According to lmam-i Rabbani(ks), the change os nafs means, it owning the usool-i ashara as character. This is the only way for nafs to gain maqam and raise. Usool-i ashara are: Tawbah, zuhd(keeping his heart away from dunia), uzlah(staying alone with Allaahu Taala), kanaah(being content with what he has, shukr), tawaqool(leaving the result to Allaahu Taala after he does what he can, not worrying), permanent state of dhikr, tawajooh to Haqq Taala(turning to Allaahu Taala in every matter), sabr(patience), muraqaba(thinkimg that Allaahu Taala is by his side, observing him all the time), ridha(being consent of Allaahu Taala),
Of course, these matters are shown in the maqamat of nafs. There's none in nafs-i ammara. Here the person is out of humanity. Usually he looks like an animal. Because, nafs turns into an animal due to the sins or bad habits it has. As the owner of this maqam gets older, he keeps looking more like that animal. This is both in sirah(habit, akhlaq) and surah(looks). A careful eye could catch this immediately. lt is told in hadiths that if he dies in this condition, he would be resurrected in surah of that animal in akhirah. May Allaah Jalla Jalaluhu save us. Ameen. Tawba is seen specificly as a matter of akhlaq in lawwama nafs. Other qualities exist a bit weakly. ln nafs-i mulhima, zuhd, qanaah, uzlah are also seen evidently,beside tawba as moral character. Other qualities aren't gained fully, even though they are a bit more than nafs-i lawama. ln nafs-i mutmainne, tawba, zuhd, qanaah, uzlah, constant dhikr and also tawaqool became specific on the soul of the person, just like his clothes. And other qualities started to get strengthened, and show themselves slowly. ln radhiyya, usool-i ashara are almost fully seen in the soul of the person. ln mardhiyya and qamila, these are fully placed, deepened, and became inseparable parts, characteristic elements of the nafs.

Truly, this usool-i ashara are like a spiritual cloth. They beautify the muslim. They add him a desirable surah and sirah. ln some of them, this spirit starts showing itself as soon as one or two of them become apparent. As much as they increase in number and become apparent, they would be seen more clearly and beautify that person more. People would be affected by these people, but they wouldn't get why mostly.

ln the last verse of surah al-Mujadala, after the Almighty Allaah praising muminun who don't befriend the enemies of Allaah jalla jalaluhu and His prophet alaihissalatu wassalaam even if they are family; He Subhana wa Taala says He would support them with a spirit. l understand the word "spirit" here, as a spiritual dress that beautifies the nafs of the people. This spiritual dress happen to be a few blessings of usool-i ashara.

Muhyiddeen lbn Arabi(ks) stated that he took benefit from over two hundred shaiks. He served a shaikh who is ma'roof(known) with tawaqool for a few years. Whereas if it were us, we would have tried to learn tawaqool from a couple of books.

Well, what if one is a member of tariqah  of naqshabandiyya? For naqshabandiyya is not khalwatiyya. They neither get in khalwat nor they give much heed to sawm-i nawafeel(fasting)  They don't distress nafs much. They just do dhikr. At first dhikr by heart. When the heart is resurrected, they pass dhikr by lataifa(spiritual organs). When lataifa is resurrected, then it's time for nafy-u ispah(laa ilaaha illallaah) dhikr.  OK, but how are these dhikr related to nafs? See, this is why l wrote this article. l've asked questions pointing this out at the beginning of this article.  Yet we could turn back to the begginning after all this enterance. For it was necessary to inform people who are not familiar with this matter.

Surely, dhikr is done for the sake of Allaahu Taala, but there's no doubt that dhikr has benefits for nafs. ln fact, just as a tree bears fruit, the fruit of dhikr is the change which it made in nafs. We clarified that, these changes are called maqamat of nafs, and nafs gained these maqamat by usool-i ashara qualities. Yes, howcome a mureed of tariqah naqshabandiyya changes his nafs doing dhikr by heart? l mean how does the progress work, while he holds the tasbeeh on his heart or lataifa saying "Allaah, Allaah...", and what kind of change does this make? How is nafs related to the heart and lataifa? Moreover, how does the effect of  dhikr on the maqamat of nafs occur?

The heart and lataifa are like the sense organs of the soul. Moreover, when the soul starts working at these points, this way nafs gains ranks. l mean, the heart and lataifa are directly related to the nafs. When the heart and lataifa starts working by dhikr, noor and faiz occur. These feed the soul. The more the soul develops, and  becomes mature, at first it gets rid off the chain of shaitan, and then it starts making the nafs be like the soul.

See, then comes the maqamat of nafs and usool-i ashara up. lt means, while the soul develops and becomes mature by dhikr, noor and faiz, nafs gains the maqamat and the moral characteristics of usool-i ashara. Just like the bread and water turns into energy in our body.

There's  the seeds of moral cgaracteristic in noor and faiz which would form usool-i ashara as a divine treat. Because, these coume out of dhikr. Because of that, noor and faiz feed the soul with these moral character and qualities as a gift of the Almighty Allaah. And then, these reflect on the nafs, just as the mirror, show there and place in there. Surely, it would take a long time for the nafs to change and take hard work and a lot of effort for the reflection effect the nafs fully. lt's necessary to knead the life with dhikr. And this is only a matter of naseeb(kismat) for patient ones.

l tested myself for long years upon the heart and lataifa. l would like to share my experience here.

As it's known, main lataif points are: qalb, rooh, sirr, haafi, ahwa. Also nafs, which is placed in the middle of the two eyebrows, and lataif-i kull, which is placed on top of the head.

Qalb is located approximately two inches below the left nipple, rooh is located approximately  two inches below the right nipple,  sirr is located approximately one inch above the left breast, hafi is located approximately one inch above of the right breat, ahwa is located approximately one inch below of the throat pit.

This lataif point starts working in a couple of months if one holds the tasbeeh on this lataif point and does dhikr. Of course it's proper to do this not by himself, but under the authority of a qamil mursheed. For nafs and shayateen could trick the person. Can perish him.

Qalb is the center of divine tajalligah(manifetation) and peace. Peace meaning, heart has a function just as the eyes of ours. l mean one can find divine peace in ibadah, if he works hard. He could gain faculties as if he is doing ibadah before Allaahu Taala. ln islam, it's called ihsan, or muraqaba. l lived that, when l kept doing dhikr on the heart lataif for a long time, and l understood that, peace is not a mental process, but a blessing which is granted by dhikr by heart. And this lataif has also an aspect towards the world. Truly, if we were to describe it with one word, dhikr by heart grants the person "peace" literally. When one makes the heart lataif work, he lives peace.

Rooh lataif is the center of divine love and affection. When l kept working on rooh for a long time, l started living strange things. l mean, when we were child, there were different meanings of the fruits, flowers, birds; in fact there was a beauty in them which makes us feel  surrounded by love and joy. All of a sudden my world changed. l started to live those feelings all over again. Kove and affection started to be seen and felt in every single thing. My family also took their portion of it. Then l understood that love and affection falls of the rooh is worn on my eyes just like glasses by working of the rooh  lataif. The key to happiness is here, while people are running after drugs and alcohol. But, how could l make them understand?

Sirr lataif is the center of vahdaniyyah. Seeing the hand of Allaahu Taala in every single thing... Living tawaqool and tafaqoor... The most useful lataif for the nafs to reach mutmainna maqam.

Hafi lataif is the center of istighraq. Just as the way when you get into the sea if you release yourself and then you relief; when this lataif works you feel the same as well. A feeling like being consent with Allaahu Taala wraps you. You feel like you are surrounded by a sea of mercy. lt's a very good feeling. State of ridha give the person great relief. Destroys the worries.

Ahwa lataif is the center of izmihlal. lzmihlal is the state of dissapearance. ln common word which is used in tasawoof, state of fana. l  lost myself in ahwa for a long time. ln fact, l did dhikr on that point for a long time due to l couldn't live the haal of it. Whereas, l couldn't find myself, even though l was living the state of fana deeply. ln fact l forgot to make a connection between the state l lived and this lataif point for a long time. Then after four or five months, l got hold of it. l noticed that, this lataif is a breaking point. The beginning of fana starts here. Truly, the person draws himself back fromthe world and lifein special feelings. But he cannot notice or notices late. As if he becomes a shadow. By this time, all lataif points are working fully. He is filled with noor and faiz. And this makes him improve spiritually. Because the progress we told above works faster. Rooh strengthens when it is surrounded wşth noor and faiz. lt becomes dominant in the land of body. Nafs starts becoming like rooh and raising in ranks. This is how the wheels spin.

l gave a lot of thought to such things meanwhile: There are chairs of tasawoof in universitie in Turkey. But the only interest of them with tasawoof is by the history of it. The meaning of these lataif points take a little place in their books. People like me can experience it immediately. Also could live. Then they can see how their mental health is in their hands. They could notice the close relation between the lataif points and mental health. When will psycologists start using these lataif points which are full of secrets and miracles? When will people start healing using these? When will these subjects come into the daylight by the work of scientists? These questions are in a dark alley for now. They don't have the weight like anyone could answer easily.

l suffered migraine since years. Headaches with no reasons. Not healing with drugs. These days, when it starts, l either put Qur'ai Kareem on top of my head or l hold my tasbeeh on my head saying "Allaah, Allaah..." immediately. lt ends in half an hour. Back in the day, it used to last all day long, even for days l used to get mad out of these headaches. Allaahu Taala give the cure while He gives the trouble al hamdu Lillaahi Taala...

May Allaahu Taala make us gain His consent. Ameen.